CI/CD template changes for GitLab/GitHub (#2619)
astronomer/docs: astro/ci-cd-templates/gitlab.md

description: Use pre-built Astronomer CI/CD templates to automate deploying Apache Airflow DAGs to Astro using GitLab.
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

> Use the following CI/CD templates to automate deployment of your Astro project from a [GitLab](https://gitlab.com/) repository to Astro.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following CI/CD templates to automate deploys to Astro from a [GitLab](https://gitlab.com/) repository.
```

Each CI/CD template implementation might have additional requirements.

## Image deploy templates

<Tabs
    defaultValue="singlebranch"

>     groupId= "image-templates"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    groupId= "image-deploy-templates"
```

    values={[
        {label: 'Single branch', value: 'singlebranch'},
        {label: 'Multiple branch', value: 'multibranch'},
    ]}>

<TabItem value="singlebranch">

Use this template to push code to from a GitLab repository to Astro.

> 1. In your GitLab project, [follow GitLab's documentation](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/variables/#for-a-project) to set the following environment variables for a project:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Set the following [environment variables](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/variables/#for-a-project) in your GitLab project:
```

    - `ASTRO_API_TOKEN`: The value for your Workspace or Organization API token.

>     - `DEPLOYMENT_ID`: The ID of your Astro Deployment. You can copy this **ID** from your Deployment's home page in the Cloud UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `DEPLOYMENT_ID`: The ID of your Astro Deployment. You can copy the ID from your Deployment's home page in the Cloud UI.
```

>     Astronomer recommends to always mask the value of your API token to prevent it from getting printed in plain-text in the logs. You can also set API token as an [external secret](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/secrets/index.html) for an extra layer of security.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Astronomer recommends that you always [mask](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/variables/#mask-a-cicd-variable) your API token to prevent it from being accessible in plain text. You can also set the API token as an [external secret](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/secrets/index.html) for an extra layer of security.
```

> 2. Go to **Build** > **Pipeline Editor**, paste and commit the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Go to **Build** > **Pipeline Editor** and commit the following:
```

  ```yaml
  astro_deploy:
    stage: deploy
    image: docker:latest
    services:
      - docker:dind
    
    variables:
        ASTRO_API_TOKEN: ${ASTRO_API_TOKEN}
        DEPLOYMENT_ID: ${DEPLOYMENT_ID}

    before_script:
      - apk add --update curl && rm -rf /var/cache/apk/*
      - apk add bash
    script:
      - (curl -sSL install.astronomer.io | bash -s)
      - astro deploy -f $DEPLOYMENT_ID
    only:
      - main
  ```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="multibranch">

Use this template to push code to a development and a production Deployment in Astro based on your GitLab project's branch name.

> 1. In your GitLab project, [follow GitLab's documentation](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/variables/#for-a-project) to set the following environment variables for a project:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Set the following [environment variables](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/variables/#for-a-project) in your GitLab project:
```

    - `PROD_ASTRO_API_TOKEN`: The value of your production Workspace or Organization API token.

>     - `PROD_DEPLOYMENT_ID`: The ID of your Astro Deployment. You can copy this **ID** from your production Deployment's home page in the Cloud UI.
>     - `DEV_ASTRO_API_TOKEN`: The value of your development Workspace or Organization API token.
>     - `DEV_DEPLOYMENT_ID`: The ID of your Astro Deployment. You can copy this **ID** from your development Deployment's home page in the Cloud UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `PROD_DEPLOYMENT_ID`: The ID of your Astro Deployment. You can copy the ID from your production Deployment's page in the Cloud UI.
    - `DEV_ASTRO_API_TOKEN`: The value of your development Workspace or Organization API token.
    - `DEV_DEPLOYMENT_ID`: The ID of your Astro Deployment. You can copy this ID from your development Deployment's page in the Cloud UI.
```

>     Astronomer recommends to always mask the value of your API token to prevent it from getting printed in plain-text in the logs. You can also set API token as an [external secret](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/secrets/index.html) for an extra layer of security.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Astronomer recommends that you always [mask](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/variables/#mask-a-cicd-variable) your API token to prevent it from being accessible in plain text. You can also set the API token as an [external secret](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/secrets/index.html) for an extra layer of security.
```
